"""
CSCC11 - Introduction to Machine Learning, Winter 2021, Assignment 3
B. Chan, Z. Zhang, D. Fleet
"""

Answer The Following Questions:

Visualization:
1. Do you expect logistic regression to perform well on generic_1? Why?
   Yes, we would expect logistic regression to perform well on generic_1 since the visualization map is 
   linearly seperable, i.e. we should be able to find a level set that distinguishes the two classes with 
   good accuracy. 
   
   What if we apply the feature map defined in Equation (2) on the assignment handout?
   As we are incorporating additional information about a third feature in our training data it might make 
   the data points less linearly seperable, in which case the data points cannot be sgregated by a linear boundary. 
   Therefore, we do no expect Logistic Regression to work well on generic_1.



2. Do you expect logistic regression to perform well on generic_2? Why? 
   No, looking at the map, the data does not seem to be linearly seperable and is identical to the XOR case, 
   where a single decision boundary only achieves accuracy in classifying one cluster of data points.
   
   
   What if we apply the feature map defined in Equation (2) on the assignment handout?
   Since the feature map introduces new information in the form of an additional feature, we are using the third feature 
   to classify the data into 2 clusters that are linearly sperable. As it can been seen from Q2 in the assignment, the clusters near 
   (0,0), (0,1), (1,0) are treated as a single class whereas the cluster around (1,1) is treated as the second class. 


3. Do you expect logistic regression to perform well on generic_3? Why?
   As can be seen from the graph, we do not expect logistic regression to work well in this case, since the data does not
   seem to be linearly seprable. In the graphm, data is clustered at the centre which means it would be difficult to find 
   a decision boundary that classifies all 3 classes. 


4. Why can’t we directly visualize the wine dataset? What are some ways to visualize it?
   This is because the number of features in the dataset are 13 and we cannot plot 13 dimensions in our map. 
   Ways to plot it include: plotting those 2 features that have the most weight in classifying the data w.r.t y, 
   plotting a feature at a time w.r.t y, using dimensionality reduction to reduce the size of features. 



Analysis:
1. Generic Dataset 1: Run logistic regression without regularization and without feature map. 
   Did you run into any numerical errors? If so, why do you think this is the case? 
   Yes, division by 0 error or NaN/Inf. This is beacause the probability of a datapoint belonging to a particular class may fall
   to 0 or too small, i.e. the datapoint may belong on the levelset, which is why the log of that value may tend to infinity when 
   computing nll. 



   Now, run logistic regression with regularization. What happens? 
   What are the train and test accuracies?
   Logistic regression with regularization works perfectly since we are introducing a certain bias in our model as we 
   incorporate the loss from the regularized term. It reduces the weights so that data fits the testing set well. The test and train
   accuracies are 100% i.e. the data is classified perfectly. 
   


2. Generic Dataset 2: Run logistic regression without regularization and without feature map.
   What are the train and test accuracies?
   Train accuracy: 41%
   Test accuracy: 28.0000000000004%
   This confirms our hypothesis in Q2 of visualization i.e. atleast 1/4 (approx 25% == approx 28%) 

   
   Run it with feature map now, did the performance get better? Why do you think that is the case?
   Yes, the performance does get better. Training Accuracy: 100.0%, Test Accuracy: 100.0%. This is because 
   by adding another feature we are incorporating information that helps make the data linearly seperable as explained in 
   Q2 part(ii) above. 




3. Generic Dataset 3: Run logistic regression without regularization and without feature map.
   What are the train and test accuracies?
   Training Accuracy: 79.0%    Test Accuracy: 82.0%

   
   What if we run it with feature map?
   Training Accuracy: 83.0%    Test Accuracy: 82.0%


4. What are the training and validation accuracies for the wine dataset?
   Without regularization: Training Accuracy: 100.0%       Test Accuracy: 96.66666666666667%
   With regularization: Training Accuracy: 97.2972972972973%    Test Accuracy: 96.66666666666667%

   


